# Instructions for building MeCab wrapper library used by Smdn.Text.Ondulish
This document describes step-by-step instructions for building MeCab wrapper library refered by the bindings from [Smdn.Text.Ondulish](../src/Smdn.Text.Ondulish/).

The following instructions are an example in a Linux environment, so replace them according to the target environment.

## Clone MeCab source tree
Clone the MeCab source tree to the directory `mecab`.

```
git clone https://github.com/taku910/mecab.git --depth 1 mecab
```

## Build MeCab shared library
Firstly, run `configure` on MeCab root directory.

```
cd mecab/mecab/
./configure --enable-shared --enable-static -with-pic --with-charset=utf8 --enable-utf8-only
cd -
```

Then, build a MeCab shared library.

```
cd mecab/mecab/src/
make CXXFLAGS="-std=c++14 -fPIC -O3" libmecab.la
cd -
```

## Build wrapper library for MeCab bindings
Firstly, create a directory where the C# bindings will be output.

We don't use the C# bindings generated by SWIG here, but SWIG requires the output directory.

```
mkdir -p mecab-bindings-csharp
```

Next, generate a source of the wrapper.

The options `-namespace MeCab` and `-dllimport mecab` will be the names referenced by binding of `DllImport`, so do not change them.

```
swig -c++ -o MeCab_wrapper.cxx -csharp -namespace MeCab -dllimport mecab -outdir mecab-bindings-csharp mecab/mecab/swig/MeCab.i
```

Finally, compile the wrapper and MeCab shared library to create a wrapper library.

The output filename `libmecab.so` should be changed according to the target platform. As an example, it should be `mecab.dll` on Windows and `libmecab.dylib` on macOS.

```
g++ -std=c++14 -fPIC -O3 -c MeCab_wrapper.cxx -I'mecab/mecab/src/' -o MeCab_wrapper.o
g++ -std=c++14 -fPIC -O3 -shared -s MeCab_wrapper.o mecab/mecab/src/.libs/libmecab.a -o libmecab.so
```

## Deploy the wrapper library
Deploy the built wrapper library in the same directory as `Smdn.Text.Ondulish.dll`.

If you encounter the exceptions like below, check the following:

- Whether the libraries required by MeCab are installed in the environment where the wrapper library is deployed.
- Whether the file name/extension of the wrapper library matches the file name/extension of the library in the execution environment. (`libmecab.so`, `mecab.dll`, `libmecab.dylib`, etc.)
- Whether the wrapper library and `Smdn.Text.Ondulish.dll` are deployed in the same directory or one of the `DllImport`'s search directories.
- Whether the function name referenced from `DllImport` of `Smdn.Text.Ondulish.dll` matches the function name in the wrapper library.
In other words, are the namespace and the DllImport name specified to SWIG correct?

```txt
Unhandled exception. System.TypeInitializationException: The type initializer for 'MeCab.MeCabPINVOKE' threw an exception.
 ---> System.TypeInitializationException: The type initializer for 'SWIGExceptionHelper' threw an exception.
 ---> System.DllNotFoundException: Unable to load shared library 'mecab' or one of its dependencies. In order to help diagnose loading problems, consider setting the LD_DEBUG environment variable: libmecab: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
```
